Add blog post introducing COSI (Object Storage) (#35454)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-08-15-introducing-cosi.md

## Motivation

File and block storage are treated as first class citizens in the Kubernetes ecosystem via CSI. Workloads using CSI volumes enjoy the benefits of portability across vendors and across Kubernetes clusters without the need to change application manifests. An equivalent standard does not exist for Object storage.

Object storage has been rising in popularity in recent years as an alternative form of storage to filesystems and block devices. Object storage paradigm promotes disaggregation of compute and storage. This is done by making data available over the network, rather than locally. Disaggregated architectures allow compute workloads to be stateless, which consequently makes them easier to manage, scale and automate.

## COSI
 
COSI aims to standardize consumption of object storage to provide the following benefits:

   * Kubernetes Native - A completely kubernetes-API driven experience to provision, configure and manage buckets
   * Self Service - A clear delineation between administration and operations (DevOps) to enable self-service capability for DevOps personnel

>    * Portability - Vendor Neutrality enabled through portability across Kubernetes Clusters and across Object Storage vendors*

Reviewer: There is no need to indent the list. Markdown is sensitive to indentations. Please avoid unnecessary indentations unless necessary.

The third item has a trailing star (`*`)?

Reviewer: We are cautious about capitalization of words such as "Clusters", "Neutrality" etc, unless when we use them for a good reason.

Author: Thank you for the feedback - I've fixed the issues mentioned above and unindented all lists in the blogpost

---
layout: blog

> title: 'Introducing COSI: Object Storage Support in Kubernetes'

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
title: "Introducing COSI: Object Storage Management Using Kubernetes APIs"
```
?

What do you think?

date: 2022-08-15
slug: cosi-object-storage-support
---

**Authors:** Sidhartha Mani (alcion.ai)

This article introduces the Container Object Storage Interface (COSI), a standard for provisioning and consuming object storage in Kubernetes. It is a alpha feature in Kubernetes v1.25.

> ## Motivation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

We don't start blog articles with a subheading.

File and block storage are treated as first class citizens in the Kubernetes ecosystem via CSI. Workloads using CSI volumes enjoy the benefits of portability across vendors and across Kubernetes clusters without the need to change application manifests. An equivalent standard does not exist for Object storage.

> Object storage has been rising in popularity in recent years as an alternative form of storage to filesystems and block devices. Object storage paradigm promotes disaggregation of compute and storage. This is done by making data available over the network, rather than locally. Disaggregated architectures allow compute workloads to be stateless, which consequently makes them easier to manage, scale and automate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Object storage has been rising in popularity in recent years as an alternative form of storage to filesystems and block devices. The object storage paradigm promotes disaggregation of compute and storage. This is done by making data available over the network, rather than locally. Disaggregated architectures allow compute workloads to be stateless, which consequently makes them easier to manage, scale and automate.
```

Reviewer 2: Consider hyperlinking to (eg) the Wikipedia entry on object storage.

## COSI
 
COSI aims to standardize consumption of object storage to provide the following benefits:

> * Kubernetes Native - A completely kubernetes-API driven experience to provision, configure and manage buckets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Kubernetes Native - Use the Kubernetes API to provision, configure and manage buckets (sets of object storage)
* ```

> * Self Service - A clear delineation between administration and operations (DevOps) to enable self-service capability for DevOps personnel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Self Service - Allows delegation permission for teams to configure and use object storage, without needing to assign cluster-level administrative access to that team.
```

DevOps is _not_ about clear delineation between administration and operations, and someone following DevOps practices is necessarily working in a pure IT ops function.

> * Portability - Vendor neutrality enabled through portability across Kubernetes Clusters and across Object Storage vendors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Portability - Vendor neutrality enabled through portability across Kubernetes clusters and across storage vendors
```

> _Portability across vendors is only possible when both vendors support a common datapath-API. Eg. it is possible to port from AWS S3 to Ceph, or AWS S3 to MinIO and back as they all use S3 API. In contrast, it is not possible to port from AWS S3 and Google Cloud’s GCS or vice versa._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Direct portability across vendors is only possible when both vendors support a common datapath-API. For example, it is possible to port from Amazon S3 to Ceph, or from Amazon S3 to MinIO and back, as these all use a version of the original S3 API. In contrast, it is not possible to port from Amazon S3 and Google Cloud’s GCS or vice versa._
```

## Architecture

COSI is made up of three components:

* COSI Controller Manager
* COSI Sidecar

> * COSI Driver

Reviewer 2: We usually don't link to code repos; it'd be better to link to reference docs.
(tip: once those docs exist, it's OK to go back to this article and add links to those docs).

> * COSI Driver

Author: Sounds good, thanks for the suggestion. I'll update when the docs are in place

The COSI Controller Manager acts as the main controller that processes changes to COSI API objects. It is responsible for fielding requests for bucket creation, updates, deletion and access management. One instance of the controller manager is required per kubernetes cluster. Only one is needed even if multiple object storage providers are used in the cluster. 

> The COSI Sidecar acts as a translator between COSI API requests and vendor specific COSI Drivers. This component uses a standardized gRPC protocol that vendor drivers are expected to satisfy. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The COSI Sidecar acts as a translator between COSI API requests and vendor-specific COSI Drivers (of course, the vendor could also be an open-source project). This component uses a standardized gRPC protocol that vendor drivers are expected to satisfy.
```

The COSI Driver is the vendor specific component that receives requests from the sidecar and calls the appropriate vendor APIs to create buckets, manage their lifecycle and manage access to them. 

## API

The COSI API is centered around buckets, since they are the unit of abstraction for provisioning object storage. We define three kubernetes APIs aimed at managing them

* Bucket
* BucketClass
* BucketClaim

In addition, two more APIs for managing access to buckets are also defined:

* BucketAccess
* BucketAccessClass

> In a nutshell, Bucket and BucketClaim can be considered to be similar to PersistentVolume and PersistentVolumeClaim respectively. The BucketClass’s counterpart in the file/block device world is StorageClass. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a nutshell, Bucket and BucketClaim can be considered to be similar to PersistentVolume and PersistentVolumeClaim respectively. The BucketClass's counterpart in the file/block device world is [StorageClass](/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/).
```

Since Object Storage is always authenticated, and over the network, access credentials are required to access buckets. The two APIs, namely, BucketAccess and BucketAccessClass are used to denote access credentials and policies for authentication. More info about these APIs can be found in the official COSI proposal - https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/2813

## Self-Service

> Other than providing kubernetes-API driven bucket management, COSI also aims to empower DevOps personnel to provision and manage buckets on their own, without admin intervention. This, further enabling dev teams to realize faster turn-around times and faster time-to-market. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other than providing (Kubernetes) API driven bucket management, COSI also aims to empower personnel to provision and manage buckets on their own, without admin intervention. This, further enabling dev teams to realize faster turn-around times and faster time-to-market.
```
Those personnel might see their role as (eg) developer, as a storage specialis, or as an SRE. The DevOps label doesn't help much here IMO.

> COSI achieves this by dividing bucket provisioning steps among two different stakeholders, namely the administrator (admin), and the operator (devops). The administrator will be responsible for setting broad policies and limits on how buckets are provisioned, and how access is obtained for them. The operator will be free to create and utilize buckets within the limits set by the admin. 

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
COSI achieves this by dividing bucket provisioning responsibilities between two different stakeholder personas: cluster operators (admin), and one or more storage managers. The cluster operators are responsible for defining broad policies and limits on how buckets are provisioned, and how access is obtained for them. A storage manager is be free to create and utilize buckets within the limits set by the cluster operator.

As a storage manager, you can either request and configure object storage directly, or you can make use of the Kubernetes API to manage this more declaratively; for example, using infrastructure-as-code and an automated
deploy.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Can you use "devops" instead of "operator" because "operator" has other meanings as well

Reviewer 2: Our official term is “cluster operator”, BTW.

Author: Got it

> For example, an admin policy could be used to restrict maximum provisioned capacity to 100GB, and operators would be allowed to create buckets and store data upto that limit. Similarly for access credentials, admins would be able to restrict who can access which buckets, and operators would be able to access all the buckets available to them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, a cluster operator could use an admin policy to restrict maximum provisioned capacity to 100GB, and storage managers would be allowed to create buckets and store data up to that limit. Similarly for access credentials, admins would be able to restrict who can access which buckets, and storage managers would be able to access all the buckets available to them.
```

## Portability

The third goal of COSI is to achieve vendor neutrality for bucket management. COSI enables two kinds of portability:

* Cross Cluster
* Cross Provider

Cross Cluster portability is allowing buckets provisioned in one cluster to be available in another cluster. This is only valid when the object storage backend itself is accessible from both clusters.

> Cross Provider portability is allowing organizations to move from one object storage provider to another seamlessly, and without requiring changes to application definitions (PodSpecs, StatefulSets, Deployment definitions etc.). This is only possible if the source and destination providers use the same data 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cross-provider portability is about allowing organizations or teams to move from one object storage provider to another seamlessly, without requiring changes to application definitions (Pod templates, StatefulSets, Deployments, and so on). This is only possible if the source and destination providers use the same data.
```
